Here are five things to know about neural 
networks in under five minutes. Number one:  
neural networks are composed of node layers. There 
is an input node layer, there is a hidden layer,  
and there is an output layer. And these neural 
networks reflect the behavior of the human brain,  
allowing computer programs to recognize patterns 
and solve common problems in the fields of AI and  
deep learning. In fact, we should be describing 
this as an artificial neural network, or an  ANN,
to distinguish it from the very un-artificial 
neural network that's operating in our heads. Now,  
think of each node, or artificial neuron, as its own 
linear regression model. That's number two.  
Linear regression is a mathematical model that's 
used to predict future events. The weights of the  
connections between the nodes determines how much 
influence each input has on the output. So each  
node is composed of input data, weights, a bias, 
or a threshold, and then an output. Now data is  
passed from one layer in the neural network to the 
next in what is known as a feed forward network -- 
number three. To illustrate this, let's consider 
what a single node in our neural network might  
look like to decide -- should we go surfing. The 
decision to go or not is our predicted outcome  
or known as our yhat. Let's assume there are 
three factors influencing our decision. Are the  
wave's good, 1 for yes or 0 for no.  The waves 
are pumping, so x1 equals 1, 1 for yes.  Is the  
lineup empty, well unfortunately not, so that gets a 
0. And then let's consider is it shark-free out  
there, that's x3 and yes, no shark attacks have 
been reported. Now to each decision we assign a  
weight based on its importance on a scale of 0 
to 5. So let's say that the waves, we're going to  
score that one, eh, so this is important, let's 
give it a 5. And for the crowds, that's w2.  
Eh, not so important, we'll give that a 2. 
And sharks, well, we'll give that a score of a  
4. Now we can plug in these values into the 
formula to get the desired output. So yhat equals  
(1 * 5) + (0 * 2) + (1 * 4), then 
minus 3, that's our threshold, and that gives us  
a value of 6. Six is greater than 0, so the 
output of this node is 1 -- we're going surfing.  
And if we adjust the weights or the threshold, 
we can achieve different outcomes.
 Number four.  Well, yes, but but but number four, neural networks 
rely on training data to learn and improve their  
accuracy over time. We leverage supervised learning 
on labeled datasets to train the algorithm.  
As we train the model, we want to evaluate its 
accuracy using something called a cost function.
Ultimately, the goal is to minimize our cost function to 
ensure the correctness of fit for any given  
observation, and that happens as the model adjusts 
its weights and biases to fit the training data  
set, through what's known as gradient descent, 
allowing the model to determine the direction  
to take to reduce errors, or more specifically, 
minimize the cost function. And then finally,  
number five: there are multiple types of neural 
networks beyond the feed forward neural network  
that we've described here. For example, there are 
convolutional neural networks, known as CNNs, which  
have a unique architecture that's well suited 
for identifying patterns like image recognition.  
And there are recurrent neural networks, or RNNs, 
which are identified by their feedback loops and  
RNNs are primarily leveraged using time series 
data to make predictions about future events like  
sales forecasting.  So, five things in five minutes.   
To learn more about neural networks, check out these videos.
Thanks for watching.
If you have any questions, please drop us a line below. And 
if you want to see more videos like this 
in the future, please Like and Subscribe.
